Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates, the world's two richest people, have invested in a company - which has been spun out of Alphabet's experimental technology company, X - that aims to store electricity by heating molten salt.
Malta, a Massachusetts-based company, has raised $26m from Breakthrough Energy Ventures, which counts the Amazon and Microsoft founders among its investors.
The company was set up in 2017 and hopes to be able to store electricity from solar and other renewable sources using an elaborate system that stores the energy as extreme heat and cold.
Energy generated from renewable sources is often wasted, and existing storage solutions such as batteries often struggle to keep up with capacity at peak times.
Malta's system involves electricity from solar panels being fed into a heat pump, which converts it into thermal energy. This is then stored as heat in "solar salt", a nitrate that can store high temperatures, and as cold in an antifreeze liquid. The heat or cold is then returned to the electricity grid when needed. Malta says the energy can be stored for days or weeks before it is required.
Ramya Swaminathan, a renewable energy executive who joined as chief executive in August, said the company would "improve grid stability and resilience across the globe".
Alphabet's X division has been attempting to bring several of its projects out of the lab and into the real world. Its best-known graduate is the Waymo self-driving car company, but earlier this year it span off its internet balloon project, Loon. Loon is a network of stratospheric balloons designed to bring Internet connectivity to rural and remote communities worldwide. Another X's project is Makani's energy kite that uses the same aerodynamic principles as a conventional wind turbine, but replaces tons of steel with lightweight electronics, advanced materials, and smart software. The kite's flight path is guided by a flight computer, which uses GPS and sensors to make thousands of calculations and adjustments in strong and steady winds.
Raj Apte, an adviser at X, said: "A lack of affordable, grid-scale energy storage is currently limiting the shift to renewable energy. Malta's technology gives us a shot at storing all the renewable energy we create cheaply and reliably."
Elon Musk's Tesla has also sold large battery packs, referred to as Powerwalls, to customers who have solar panels on their roof.